# Report on Motion Search

_Go to [Report.md](Report.md) for an introduction to this series of NR metric reports, including their purpose, important warnings, the rating scale, and details of the statistical analysis._ 

Function `nrff_motion_search.m` calls motion_search.exe from [this GitHub repository](https://github.com/facebookresearch/motion-search). 
The goal is to determine whether the features calculated by motion_search can be used to predict MOS in general and/or to predict coding complexity specifically.


## Algorithm Summary
Function motion_search.exe implements the motion search algorithm in a windows environment.

Goal|Metric Name|Rating
----|-----------|------
MOS|Motion Search|:star: :star: 


## Speed and Conformity

The `motion_search.exe` function is very fast. 
Most of the time required is used to convert the video into the format required (i.e., read and write speed).

Motion Search generates six features for each frame of the input video clip: 
- picType(frame type)
- count_I (number of I frames)
- count_P(number of P frames)
- count_B(number of B frames)
- error (difference between current frame and previous frame)
- bits (bits per frame)

From these features, we selected simple algorithms that would calculate a single parameters for the whole media file. These are preliminary ideas that do not reflect the original authors' intentions. 

Parameter|Description
----|----------
'bps'| Bits per Second (total_bits/fps)
'eps'| Error per second (total_error/fps)
'mean_error' | mean error
'Ifrac' | ratio of I frames to total frames
'Pfrac'| ratio of P frames to total frames
'Bfrac'| ratio of B frames to total frames
'mean_countP_countI_ratio'| ratio between P frames and I frames
'bps_pixels'| bps per pixel over frames per second
'max_relational_error'| macro characterization of maximum error (error of this clip in relation to the max error of VCRDCI dataset)
'mean_relational_error'| macro characterization of mean error (error of this clip in relation to the average error of VCRDCI dataset)
'std_raw_vs_all_error'| standard deviation of clip error over std of VCRDCI dataset error
'mean_raw_vs_all_error'| mean of clip error over mean of VCRDCI dataset error
'max_relational_bits'| see MATLAB implementation
'mean_relational_bits'| see MATLAB implementation
'std_raw_vs_all_bits'| mean ratio of standard deviation of clip bits to standard deviation of bits in VCRDCI dataset 
'mean_raw_vs_all_bits'| mean ratio of mean clip bits to mean of bits in VCRDCI dataset 
'max_relational_countP'| see MATLAB implementation
'mean_relational_countP'| see MATLAB implementation
'std_raw_vs_all_countP'| mean ratio of standard deviation of clip count_P to standard deviation of count_P in VCRDCI dataset 
'mean_raw_vs_all_countP|'mean ratio of mean of clip count_P to mean of count_P in VCRDCI dataset 
'mean_error_vs_mean_bits'|ratio of mean error vs mean bits
'mean_countP_vs_mean_bits'|ratio of mean count_P vs mean bits
'max_bps'| maximum bits per second
'max_to_mean_bits_per_frame'| comparison of the max to mean bits per frame


Function `nrff_motion_search.exe` uses the software produced by the authors. 

## Analysis

Motion search provided a few metrics for each frame, so it was up to the research team to produce parameters that described the clip as a whole, instead of a per frame basis. Features were generated based on the idea that these metrics would be input into a machine learning algorithm. The idea was the combination of features may provide more insight into the clip than an individual feature would. This approach lead the research team to generate an array of creative but likely low value features, in case the combination of one or more features yielded more info. 

The research team was particularly interested in how changes in bitrate, P frames, or error could give insights to a change in quality. Other ideas were also explored, such as the relation of the current clip to a standard deviation or average metric over a known dataset such as VCRDCI. The idea was to give the metric some "context" of normality.

The motion search algorithm requires a video clip and does not work on images, because `motion_search.exe` extracts features from the encoding of the video clip.

The features generated by `motion_search.exe` were used as inputs to a simple machine learning algorithm. The machine learning algorithm was a convolutional neural network trained on the VCRDCI dataset to select the most powerful features from those calculated. After rounds of feature selection, the per clip parameters generated did not produce a combination that was significantly correlated with quality.

The research team agreed on a rating of two stars. Motion search may have something worth pursuing but ultimately is not useful in its current form. Additional research would be needed for this code to become useful for quality assessment.


